# <b>MongoDB Installation</b>

This chapter will show you on how to install MongoDB as a database.

> <b>Note:</b> I recommend you using `Google Cloud Platform (GCP)` to create an Ubuntu Server to install MongoDB.

MongoDB stores a database in JSON-like format, not like other open-source databases such as `MySQL` and `SQLite3`, so it is easier for us to understand when reading the data on text.

To get started, create a `Ubuntu Server VM Instance` in `GCP`. Then, login to to that Ubuntu Server through `Secure Shell Hash (SSH)`.

Once you are done, create a user for the MongoDB server. But first, let's login as root.

```terminal
$ sudo -s
# adduser <your_username>
```

Remember to change `<your_username>` to the `username` you want to create.

Fill in the details required.

Next, we moderate that user to the `Super User Do (sudo)` group:

```bash
usermod -aG sudo <your_username>
```

So we finished creating the user! Now let's login.
```bash
ssh <your_username>@<your_server_ip>
```

Then, we `import the public GPG key` for the latest stable version of MongoDB by running this command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.4.asc | sudo apt-key add -
```

> <b>Note:</b> If you want to know how cURL is used, you can visit this [website](https://curl.se/docs/manpage.html).<br>
In the following example, cURL prints the content of the `GPG key file` and then pipes it into  `sudo apt-key add -` command, thereby adding the `GPG key` to your list of trusted keys.

This command will return OK if the key was added successfully:

```bash
OK
```

> <b>Note:</b> If you are not sure that the key was added correctly, use this command:
>```bash
>apt-key list
>```

Run the following command, which creates a file in the *`sources.list.d`* directory named *`mongodb-org-4.4.list`*.

```bash
echo "deb [ arch=amd64,arm64 ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu focal/mongodb-org/4.4 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.4.list
```

This command will help the APT know about what the source MongoDB is and where to find it.

After that, we will need to *`update our server’s local package index`* so APT knows where to find the mongodb-org package:

```bash
sudo apt update
```

Following that, we can install MongoDB.

```bash
sudo apt install mongodb-org
```

So we have successfully installed MongoDB! But wait. We will need to start that MongoDB server and test it before we end this chapter.

Since we need Admin Access, we will type *`sudo`* followed by starting that server by typing:
```bash
sudo systemctl start mongod.service
```

Let's check if the server is active.
```bash
sudo systemctl status mongod
```

It will return like this:
```bash
● mongod.service - MongoDB Database Server
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/mongod.service; enabled; vendor preset>
     Active: active (running) since Sat 2021-01-30 09:23:00 UTC; 2 weeks 3 days>
       Docs: https://docs.mongodb.org/manual
   Main PID: 9791 (mongod)
     Memory: 131.5M
     CGroup: /system.slice/mongod.service
             └─9791 /usr/bin/mongod --config /etc/mongod.conf
```


After we confirmed that the service is running, enable the MongoDB service to start up when the Ubuntu Server boots up:
```bash
sudo systemctl enable mongod
```

> <b>Note:</b> If you want to check that the connection is OK, use this command:
> ```bash
> mongo --eval 'db.runCommand({ connectionStatus: 1 })'
> ```

We will proceed next to securing the database and make it public in Chapter 2.

> Adapted from [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mongodb-on-ubuntu-20-04). Some contents here are edited to make sure that MongoDB server supports your Discord.js Commando Bot.