# <b>Securing MongoDB Database and make it public</b>

This chapter will show you on how to enable authentication to secure your MongoDB database and make it public so that you can access anywhere.

> ⚠️ <span style="color:yellow">WARNING:</span> If you have used this command *`ufw enable`* before this chapter (or Chapter 1), you will not be able to make your database public. Even when it can, it will take a lot of time.

Let'a add an administrative user, which is the root account for MongoDB server.

But first, we go inside MongoDB server.
```bash
mongo
```

Some output is in the Mongo shell prompt. Since we haven't yet enabled authentication, MongoDB will include a warning that access control isn't enabled for the database and that read and write access to data and and the database’s configuration are unrestricted:

```bash
MongoDB shell version v4.4.0

 . . . 

2020-06-09T13:26:51.391+0000 I  CONTROL  [initandlisten] ** WARNING: Access control is not enabled for the database.
2020-06-09T13:26:51.391+0000 I  CONTROL  [initandlisten] **          Read and write access to data and configuration is unrestricted.

 . . .

> 
```

So to show that it is unrestricted, run this command:
```bash
> show dbs
```

It will show the output of databases that are unrestricted:
```
admin   0.000GB
config  0.000GB
local   0.000GB
```

Let's go connect to admin database before creating a user.

```bash
> use admin
```

```bash
switched to db admin
```

I will create my user as *`tribui`*. You can name your own user.

```bash
> db.createUser(
... {
... user: "tribui",
... pwd: passwordPrompt(),
... roles: [ { role: "userAdminAnyDatabase", db: "admin" }, "readWriteAnyDatabase" ]
... }
... )
```

When you press enter, it will prompt you a password.

```bash
Enter password: 
```

> <b>Note:</b> Another way is to change the *`passwordPrompt()`* to your password. This will skip the `Enter password` prompt. This is for MongoDB older versions:
> ```bash
> pwd: 'my_passwd',
> ```
> Remember not to enter `@` in your password, as the mongoose package which you will be using for creating a Discord Commando Bot will fail to authorize it.

Once you are done, this will return the output that the user is successfully created!
```json
Successfully added user: {
    "user" : "Minh Tri",
    "roles" : [
        {
            "role" : "userAdminAnyDatabase",
            "db" : "admin"
        },
        "readWriteAnyDatabase"
    ]
}
```

We then exit the MongoDB for the next step.

```bash
> exit
```

But we are not done yet. We need to enable authentication to enable root user logon.

This means that we need to edit the *`mongod.conf`*, which is MongoDB’s configuration file.

We will use *`nano`* as our editor in Ubuntu.

```bash
sudo nano /etc/mongod.conf
```

Then scroll down to find the commented-out *`security`* section:

```bash
. . .
#security:

#operationProfiling:

. . .
```

Uncomment this line by removing the pound sign `#`:

```bash
. . .
security:

#operationProfiling:
. . .
```

Then we add the *`authorization`* parameter and set it to *`"enabled"`*. When you’re done, the lines should look like this:

```bash
. . .
security:
  authorization: "enabled"
. . .
```

> <b>Note:</b> The *`security:`* line has no spaces at the beginning, while the *`authorization:`* line is indented with two spaces.

After adding these lines, save and close the file. If you used nano to open the file, do so by pressing *`CTRL + X`*, *`Y`*, then *`ENTER`*.

Then restart the daemon to put the new changes into effect:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart mongod
```

Next, we check that the service status to make sure that it restarted correctly:

```bash
sudo systemctl status mongod
```

## Testing Authentication Settings

----
Now that we've enabled authentication, none of the warnings we encountered previously will appear:
```bash
$ mongo

MongoDB shell version v4.4.0
connecting to: mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/?compressors=disabled&gssapiServiceName=mongodb
Implicit session: session { "id" : UUID("5d50ed96-f7e1-493a-b4da-076067b2d898") }
MongoDB server version: 4.4.0
> 
```

When we type in *`show dbs`* no databases will be shown, which means you are in the right track.

```
> show dbs
```

Exit the MongoDB shell.

> <b>Note:</b> Instead of running the following `exit` command as you did previously, an alternative way to close the shell is to just press `CTRL + C`.